AIML Capstone
Preserving Heritage: Enhancing Tourism 
with AI
Business Scenario
There are centuries old historical structures that preserve a country's and community's 
history for future generations and promote tourism opportunities. 
To improve tourism, a government agency decides to use advanced machine learning 
techniques to monitor the condition of these historical structures and report if any of 
them need maintenance. 
Also, understanding customers (tourists) and their expectations is critical for eﬀective 
marketing and promotion of tourism. A recommendation engine is an excellent way to 
supplement existing marketing outreach. 
Problem statement 1:
Objectives
XYZ Pvt. Ltd., a leading industry consulting ﬁrm, has been hired to help the cause by 
developing an intelligent and automated AI model using TensorFlow that can predict the 
category of a structure in an image. 
Part 1:
The second objective of this project requires you to perform exploratory data analysis 
and develop a recommendation engine that will help tourists visit their places of interest. 
Part 2:
Part 1
Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: Structures_dataset.zip
 
This dataset is the training set and consists of images of historical structure.

Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: dataset_test 
 
This dataset is a test set and consists of images of historical structure.
Project Task
1. Plot sample images (8–10) from each class or category to gain a better understanding of 
each class
Hint: You can use the OpenCV open-source library for this task.
2. Select a CNN architecture of your choice to train the CV model. Conﬁgure the architecture 
for transfer learning, set up a TensorFlow environment for the selected backbone 
architecture, and load pre-trained weights
Note: Algorithm or architecture selection is an important step in the training of ML models. 
So, select the one that performs the best on your dataset. 
Deep learning
Project Task
3. Deep learning models tend to work well with large amounts (millions of images) of data, but 
you might not always have enough data to train a deep learning model from scratch. 
Transfer learning techniques allow you to train and ﬁne-tune large deep learning 
architectures using limited data.
Hint: For transfer learning, use pre-trained CNN weights and freeze all convolutional 
layers' weights. 
4. As of now, CNN architecture has been conﬁgured for the model. Modify the top of this 
architecture to work with the dataset by: 
• Adding an appropriate number of dense layers with an activation function
• Using dropout for regularization
Note: It is important to understand that these parameters are hyperparameters that 
must be tuned. 
Deep learning
Project Task
5. Compile the model with the right set of parameters like optimizer, loss function, and metric
6. Deﬁne your callback class to stop the training once validation accuracy reaches a certain 
number of your choice
7. Set up the train or test dataset directories and review the number of image samples for the train 
and test datasets for each class
8. Train the model without augmentation while continuously monitoring the validation accuracy
Deep learning
Project Task
10. Train the model with augmentation and keep monitoring validation accuracy 
Note: Choose carefully the number of epochs, steps per epoch, and validation steps based on 
your computer conﬁguration
12. Visualize training and validation accuracy on the y-axis against each epoch on the x-axis to 
see if the model overﬁts after a certain epoch
Deep learning
Part 2
Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: user.csv
Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: tourisim_with_id.csv
Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: tourism_rating.csv
Dataset Description
Variables Description
User_id Unique identiﬁcation for the user
location Location the user visited
age Age of the visitor
user.csv: It includes user demographic data to help with recommendations.
Dataset Description
Variables Description
Place_id Unique identiﬁcation for the place
Place_name Name of the place
Description Description of the place
Category Category of the place
City City for the tourist destination
 Price Price of touring the place
 Rating Rating of the destination
Time_minute Time in minutes taken to tour the place
Coordinate Coordinates of the place 
Lat Latitude of the location
Long Longitude of the location
Toursim_with_id.csv: It provides details on the tourist attractions in
Indonesia's ﬁve largest cities.
Dataset Description
Variables Description
 user_id The user id of the visitor
 place_id Unique identiﬁcation number of the place
 place_rating Rating of the place
Tourism_rating.csv: It has three columns: the user, the location, and the rating,
which is used to build a recommendation engine based on the rating.
Project Task
1. Import all the datasets and perform preliminary inspections, such as:
I. Check for missing values and duplicates
II. Remove any anomalies found in the data
2. To understand the tourism highlights better, you must explore the data in depth.
I. Explore the user group that provides the tourism ratings by:
• Analyzing the age distribution of users visiting the places and rating them 
• Identifying the places where most of these users (tourists) are coming from
Data science
Project Task
3. Next, let's explore the locations and categories of tourist spots.
I. What are the diﬀerent categories of tourist spots?
II. What kind of tourism each location is most famous or suitable for?
III. Which city would be the best for a nature enthusiast to visit?
4. To better understand tourism, you need to create a combined data with places and their user 
ratings.
Data science
Project Task
I. Use this data to ﬁgure out the spots that are most loved by the tourists. Also, which city 
has the most loved tourist spots?
II. Indonesia provides a wide range of tourist spots ranging from historical and cultural 
beauties to advanced amusement parks. Among these, which category of places are users 
liking the most?
5. Build a recommender model for the system
I. Use the above data to develop a collaborative ﬁltering model for recommendation and 
use that to recommend other places to visit using the current tourist location (place 
name)
Data science
Thank You