AIML Capstone
Sales Forecasting
Business Scenario
In the ever-changing competitive market conditions, there is a need to make correct 
business decisions and plan for future events. The effectiveness of a business decision is 
influenced by the accuracy of the models used. Demand is the most important aspect of 
a business's ability to achieve its objectives. Many decisions in business depend on 
demand, like production, sales, and staff requirements. Forecasting is necessary for 
business at both international and domestic levels. 
Problem statement:
Business Scenario
Fresh Analytics, a data analytics company, aims to comprehend and predict the demand 
for various items across restaurants. To accurately forecast the sales of items across 
different restaurants over the years, enabling better decision-making and planning.
Problem objective:
Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: restaurants.csv

Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: sales.csv

Dataset Snapshot
Name of the dataset: Items.csv 

Dataset Description
Variables Description
id Unique identification of the restaurant or store
name Name of the restaurant
restaurants.csv: This data provides information about the restaurants or store.
Dataset Description
items.csv: This data contains information about items.
Variables Description
id Unique identification of the item
store_id Unique identification of the store
name Name of the item
kcal A measure of energy nutrients (calories) in the item 
cost The unit price of the item bought 
Dataset Description
sales.csv: This contains the count of a particular item sold at a particular store
or restaurant for different dates.
Variables Description
date Date of purchase 
item Name of the item bought
Price Unit price of the item
item_count Total count of the items bought on that day
Project Task
Preliminary analysis:
a. Import the datasets into the Python environment 
b. Examine the dataset's shape and structure, and look out for any outlier 
c. Merge the datasets into a single dataset that includes the date, item id, price, item count, item 
names, kcal values, store id, and store name
Exploratory data analysis:
a. Examine the overall sales to understand the pattern 
b. Find out how sales fluctuate across different days of the week 
c. Look for any noticeable trends in the sales data for different months of the year 
d. Examine the sales distribution across different quarters averaged over the years. Identify any 
noticeable patterns. 
e. Compare the performances of the different restaurants. Find out which restaurant had the most 
sales and look at the sales for each restaurant across different years, months, and days. 
Data science
Project Task
f. Identify the most popular items overall and the stores where they are being sold. Also, find 
out the most popular item at each store 
g. Determine if the store with the highest sales volume is also making the most money per day 
h. Identify the most expensive item at each restaurant and find out its calorie count
Forecasting using machine learning algorithms:
a. Build and compare linear regression, random forest, and XGBoost models for predictions 
• Generate necessary features for the development of these models, like day of the week, 
quarter of the year, month, year, day of the month and so on
• Use the data from the last six months as the testing data 
• Compute the root mean square error (RMSE) values for each model to compare their 
performances 
• Use the best-performing models to make a forecast for the next year 
Machine learning
Thank You