AIML Capstone
Autonomous Driving
Business Scenario
Autonomous vehicles (AV) and intelligent transport systems (ITS) are the future of road 
transport. Automatic detection of vehicles on the road in real-time is essential for vehicle 
tracking, vehicle counting, and road incident response.
Problem statement 1:
This problem statement and objective consists of two parts: Part 1 and Part 2
Tesla, Inc. is an American multinational automotive and artiﬁcial intelligence company. In 
October 2020, Tesla started a full self-driving capability beta program in the United 
States. Tesla has over 100k people in this program.
Additional Information:
Business Scenario
As the second part of this project, you need to analyze the usage of autopilot and its 
eﬀect on road safety.
Objective part 2:
As the ﬁrst part of this project, you need to develop an AI model using a deep learning 
framework that predicts the type of vehicle present in an image as well as localizes the 
vehicle by rectangular bounding box.  
Objective part 1:
Part 1
Dataset Description
Images.zip
 
This dataset consists of images of autonomous vehicles.

Project Task
1. Create a parent folder for custom model training and child folders to store data.
2. Prepare the dataset for model training, keeping the following points in mind:
• This dataset contains many images, and depending on the compute power of the VM, 
it might take a long time to unzip this huge amount of data.
3. Create a CNN architecture of your choice for object detection to train an object detection 
model. Please note that algorithm or architecture selection is a very important aspect of ML 
model training, and you must choose the one that works best for your dataset.
Object detection
Project Task
4. Evaluate the model and check the test results
5. Run inferences on sample images and see if vehicles are detected accurately
Object detection
Part 2
Dataset Snapshot
Tesla-Deaths.csv

Dataset Description
Variables Description
Case# Unique identiﬁcation for the accident case
Year Year in which the accident occurred
Date Date of occurrence of the accident
Country Country where the accident occurred
State State where the accident occurred
Description Description of the accident
Deaths No. of deaths that occurred in the accident
Tesla driver If there was death of the driver
Tesla - Deaths.csv
Dataset Description
Variables Description
Tesla Occupant Unique identiﬁcation for beneﬁciary (primary)
Other vehicle Number of vehicles teslahas collided with
Cyclists/ Peds Number of cyclists per pedestrian they have collided with
 TSLA+cycl / peds Number of Teslas or bicycles or pedestrians the vehicle collided with
Model Model of the vehicle
  Autopilot claimed If insurance has been claimed for the vehicle 
  Veriﬁed Tesla Autopilot Deaths Total number of veriﬁed deaths
 Veriﬁed Tesla Autopilot Deaths + All 
Deaths Reported to NHTSA SGO
All the veriﬁed deaths and the reported deaths to NHSTA SGO
Tesla - Deaths.csv
Dataset Description
Variables Description
 Source Source of the reported accident case
 Note Note of whether the accident was caused by Tesla
 Deceased 1 First deceased 
 Deceased 2 Second deceased
 Deceased 3 Third deceased
 Deceased 4 Fourth deceased
Tesla - deaths.csv
Project Task
1. Preliminary Data Inspection and Cleaning
a. Perform preliminary data inspection, checking for data types, missing values, and duplicates
b. Remove any columns that might not be relevant for the analysis
2. Exploratory Data Analysis
a. Perform an in-depth exploratory data analysis on the number of events by date, per year, and 
per day for each state and country
b. Analyze the diﬀerent aspects of the death events. For example:
• What is the number of victims (deaths) in each accident?
• How many times did tesla drivers die?
• What is the proportion of events in which one or more occupants died?
• What is the distribution of events in which the vehicle hit a cyclist or a pedestrian?
• How many times did the accident involve the death of an occupant or driver of a Tesla    
along with a cyclist or pedestrian?
• What is the frequency of Tesla colliding with other vehicles?
Data science
Project Task
c. Study the event distribution across models
d. Check the distribution of veriﬁed Tesla autopilot deaths
Data science
Thank You